LaserEscape: Detecting and Mitigating Optical Probing Attacks
Kyle Mitard
Worcester Polytechnic Institute
Worcester, MA, USA
krmitard@wpi.edu

Saleh Khalaj Monfared
Worcester Polytechnic Institute
Worcester, MA, USA
skmonfared@wpi.edu

Andrew Cannon
University of Florida
Gainesville, FL, USA
andrew.cannon@ufl.edu

4
2
0
2

g
u
A
0
3

]

R
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
2
3
6
3
0
.
5
0
4
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Domenic Forte
University of Florida
Gainesville, FL, USA
dforte@ece.ufl.edu

Shahin Tajik
Worcester Polytechnic Institute
Worcester, MA, USA
stajik@wpi.edu

ABSTRACT
The security of integrated circuits (ICs) can be broken by sophisti-
cated physical attacks relying on failure analysis methods. Optical
probing is one of the most prominent examples of such attacks,
which can be accomplished in a matter of days, even with limited
knowledge of the IC under attack. Unfortunately, few countermea-
sures are proposed in the literature, and none have been fabri-
cated and tested in practice. These countermeasures usually require
changing the standard cell libraries and, thus, are incompatible with
digital and programmable platforms, such as field programmable
gate arrays (FPGAs). In this work, we shift our attention from pre-
venting the attack to detecting and responding to it. We introduce
LaserEscape, the first fully digital and FPGA-compatible counter-
measure to detect and mitigate optical probing attacks. LaserEscape
incorporates digital delay-based sensors to reliably detect the phys-
ical alteration of the fabric caused by laser beam irradiations in real
time. Furthermore, as a response to the attack, LaserEscape deploys
real-time hiding approaches using randomized hardware reconfig-
urability. It realizes 1) moving target defense (MTD) to physically
move the sensitive circuity under attack out of the probing field of
focus to protect secret keys and 2) polymorphism to logically ob-
fuscate the functionality of the targeted circuit to counter function
extraction and reverse engineering attempts. We demonstrate the
effectiveness and resiliency of our approach by performing optical
probing attacks on protected and unprotected designs on a 28-nm
FPGA. Our results show that optical probing attacks can be reliably
detected and mitigated without interrupting the chip’s operation.

KEYWORDS
Deception, Laser Voltage Probe, Moving Target Defense, Optical
Probing; Partial Reconfiguration; Side-Channel Attack;

ACM Reference Format:
Saleh Khalaj Monfared, Kyle Mitard, Andrew Cannon, Domenic Forte,
and Shahin Tajik. 2024. LaserEscape: Detecting and Mitigating Optical

Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
ICCAD ’24, October 27–31, 2024, New York, NY, USA
© 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-1077-3/24/10. . . $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3676536.3676822

1

Probing Attacks . In IEEE/ACM International Conference on Computer-Aided
Design (ICCAD ’24), October 27–31, 2024, New York, NY, USA. ACM, New
York, NY, USA, 10 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3676536.3676822

1 INTRODUCTION
In various applications, the security of a computing machine re-
lies on sensitive assets stored on Root-of-Trust integrated circuits
(ICs). Examples of these on-chip assets include cryptographic keys,
proprietary firmware, and intellectual property (IP). Attackers can
extract these assets by gaining physical access to the devices where
they are stored and mounting physical attacks. Attacks relying
on failure analysis (FA) tools pose the biggest threat against ICs.
Prominent examples of such attacks are the various forms of op-
tical probing attacks [4, 15–17, 33] which enable the adversary to
recover secret data and functions from chips. Illuminating a laser
beam on transistors and measuring their states using the modu-
lated backscattered laser beam is the main mechanism behind these
optical probing attacks.

Deploying randomization in countermeasures, such as mask-
ing [7, 24], is a conventional method to mitigate conventional side-
channel attacks, as it prevents the repetition and integration of the
measurements over multiple clock cycles. However, randomness
becomes ineffective if the adversary performs optical probing on
halted circuits or data at rest [15, 16]. Moreover, many root/master
keys, which cannot be masked, are vulnerable to optical probing
during key caching from memory to registers [16, 17].

A few prevention and detection-based countermeasures have
been proposed in the literature to avert optical probing attacks.
These countermeasures try to protect the design either directly
from laser irradiation [25, 26, 39] or detect tampering with the volt-
age/clock, which is required for certain optical probing attacks [6].
Such schemes deploy various logic styles and design techniques
to either minimize the data/function-dependent leakage through
the backscattered laser light [25, 26] or to detect the generated heat
illumination of the laser beam on logic cells [39]. Most of these
solutions require the modification of standard cell libraries and
are incompatible with legacy systems and field programmable gate
arrays (FPGAs). Moreover, they are tailored toward a specific form
of optical probing and, thus, cannot mitigate the threat in general.
Finally, these schemes have yet to be fabricated or tested in practice.
The only FPGA-compatible sensing countermeasure that has
been proposed so far deploys ring-oscillators (ROs) [32] to de-
tect laser irradiation. However, such a solution has never been

 
 
 
 
 
 
ICCAD ’24, October 27–31, 2024, New York, NY, USA

Khalaj Monfared et al.

researched further due its high sensitivity to environmental condi-
tions, which leads to high false alarms. In this work, we attempt to
answer the following research questions: (1) Is it possible to confi-
dently detect optical probing attempts in real-time using fully digital
components of an FPGA? (2) What would be a suitable response upon
detecting an optical probing attempt to deceive the adversary and not
interrupt the IC’s operation?
Our Contribution. To answer the above questions, we present
LaserEscape, which is capable of detecting and responding to optical
probing attacks using the existing resources of mainstream FPGAs.
To detect an optical probing attempt, we repurpose the recently
proposed fully digital delay-based 1LUTSensor [11], which had been
originally been designed for remote power analysis side-channel
attacks. We found that the mechanism which allows 1LUTSensor
to detect power fluctuations with only one look-up table (LUT) can
also detect laser irradiation from the IC backside silicon. Afterward,
to respond to the attack, we explore novel moving target defense
and gate polymorphism strategies to deceive the adversary in real-
time and render the attack ineffective. First, we demonstrate that
how upon the detection of the attack, the partial reconfiguration
(PR) feature of mainstream FPGAs and programmable SoCs can
be utilized to dynamically randomize the placement of security-
critical registers and moving them out from attacker’s probing field
with a low overhead to protect secret keys. Second, we show how
polymorphic logic gates can be realized on LUTs of FPGAs to zeroize
the output of the logic function to prevent function extraction by
the attacker. Finally, we apply LaserEscape to various circuits on
a 28-nm FPGA and perform optical probing on them to assess the
effectiveness of our solution.
Source Code Availability. We publicly publish our raw sensor
data and make the source code of LaserEscape open source in https:
//github.com/vernamlab/LaserEscape

2 TECHNICAL BACKGROUND
2.1 Optical Probing Attacks
Fig. 1 illustrates a high-level overview of optical probing attacks.
As illustrated, a laser scanning microscope can be used to navigate
through a target IC as well as capture dynamic transistor-level activ-
ities on it. Optical probing attacks often include extracting sensitive
data from the target IC while it is operational [4, 15–17, 33]. For
this aim, a high-power incoherent light source (HIL) with a wave-
length of 1.3 𝜇m is utilized. In 1 , the light beams are illuminated
and passed through multiple optical mirrors, including scanning
mirrors, before entering the objective lenses. The illumined beams
are reflected from the IC, and are guided to the laser detector in 2
using splitters. By focusing the objective lens onto the region of in-
terest (RoI), a 2D image of the target area can be captured and then
be used for localizing physical components on the IC. Additionally
by moving the stage different parts of the IC can be navigated.

Once focused, HIL beams can effectively pass through the sili-
con layer and, as shown in 3 , reflect. The run-time alterations in
the transistor-level components modulate reflected beams. In 4 ,
these beams are captured, amplified, and prepared in the analog do-
main. As the received signals contain the activities of the scanned
area, they can be used to localize components that operate at a
certain target frequency using electro-optical frequency mapping

2

(EOFM)( 5 ). Furthermore, by focusing on a particular node on the
IC, high precision electro-optical probing (EOP)∗ can be mounted
to estimate gate-level voltage fluctuations in pico-second time accu-
racy. At this point, the adversary can interpose the pattern image
and activity signals to physically localize the targets on the IC as
shown in 5 . It is common that the adversary can perform multiple
profiling attacks at this stage ( 6 ) by controlling I/O, global clock,
and reset of the IC, and gain information about the target. For in-
stance, by resetting the IC with a certain frequency or by injecting
a particular pattern of inputs into the IC [33], the target elements
could be identified using EOFM.

2.2 Sensor Implementations on FPGAs
In the case of laser attacks, such as optical probing, the colliding
laser photons locally increase the temperature of the target wires
and transistors on the chip. These local temperature variations can
affect the propagation delays of electrical signals in delay-based
sensors on FPGAs, such as ring-oscillators and time-to-digital con-
verters (TDCs). ROs [40] and TDCs [27] have been extensively used
for remote side-channel attacks on FPGAs, where they measure
voltage fluctuations on the power delivery network (PDN) caused
by adjacent intellectual property cores. While these sensors are
often used for offensive side-channels, they can also be used for
the detection of active attacks causing temperature and current
variations. RO networks have been employed as the first attempt
to detect optical probing attacks on FPGAs [32]. The main draw-
backs of using RO networks are their high power consumption and
sensitivity to environmental conditions, leading to a high number
of false alarms[32]. Therefore, as described later, a more reliable
TDC candidate will be chosen to detect optical probing attacks.

2.3 Placement Randomization as MTD
To perform optical probing, the placement of the circuit under at-
tack has to be constant for the duration of the attack, as the laser
beam needs to stay for a minimum amount of time on each transis-
tor to reveal the state of the transistor. Hence, if the placement of a
circuit can be dynamically changed or randomized, optical probing
becomes infeasible due to the reduced signal-to-noise ratio (SNR).
To achieve randomized layouts for a circuit, the dynamic reconfigu-
ration feature of mainstream FPGAs, such as partial reconfiguration
(PR) or redundant logic and multiplexers on application specific
ICs (ASICs) can be used. The PR feature of SRAM-based FPGAs rep-
resents a unique capability that allows for the dynamic alteration
of specific sections of the FPGA while maintaining the uninter-
rupted operation of the remaining system. This functionality not
only boosts the system’s flexibility but also optimizes power usage
and enhances adaptability to evolving operational conditions or
demands [13]. Additionally, PR’s application in FPGAs has proven
valuable in mission-critical settings where system downtime is
impermissible and real-time processing is necessary [14].

AMD/Xilinx’s dynamic function exchange (DFX) introduces a
technology for setting up PR areas within a static system, allow-
ing users to allocate modules to these specific areas on FPGA fab-
rics [38]. However, the Vivado toolchain has several weaknesses,

∗When using a coherent light source, EOP is typically called Laser Voltage Prob-

ing (LVP), and EOFM is called Laser Voltage Imaging (LVI).

LaserEscape: Detecting and Mitigating Optical Probing Attacks

ICCAD ’24, October 27–31, 2024, New York, NY, USA

Figure 1: High-level overview of Optical Attacks and LaserEscape mitigation

such as being too slow for real-time applications and the lack of
support for bitstream relocation [18]. On the other hand, the open-
source tools, such as Byteman [18], improved the efficiency and
speed of performing PR from an embedded processor, making it
suitable for real-time applications, such as countermeasures against
side-channel attacks during runtime.

Several countermeasures against side-channel attacks, like power
and electromagnetic (EM) analysis, have already leveraged PR [2, 8–
10, 12, 20, 23]. Some of these approaches use PR to introduce timing
jitter, which can help distort power traces and defeat power side-
channel attacks. Other techniques involve dynamically relocating
functional units to different regions of the FPGA through PR, dis-
sociating the spatial correlation between EM emanations and the
target logic. The capability for real-time reconfiguration of FPGAs
through PR has also been explored to create side-channel resistant
implementations for cryptographic primitives, such as [21].

2.4 Gate-Level Polymorphism as MTD
Another approach to respond to an optical probing attempt, in the
case of function extraction, is to transform the gate functionality.
Such real-time function transformation can be obtained using poly-
morphic circuits. Polymorphic circuits are digital circuits with the
ability to perform two or more logical operations, where the se-
lected operation depends on external factors such as temperature,
light, or supply voltage. Polymorphic circuits were first introduced
in CMOS circuits [30] using evolutionary algorithms. The classic
example of a polymorphic circuit is a gate whose output function-
ality is OR when operating at high supply voltage, but switches
to AND at low supply voltage. Further works have explored static
design methodologies for polymorphic gates without the need for
evolutionary algorithms [1]. These circuits can be used in CMOS
circuits to change pipeline functionality with low area impact and
are compatible with a wide variety of logic function combinations.
While most of the polymorphic gate realizations are carried out
by custom cell libraries, multiplexers and switch boxes have also
been used to design polymorphic elements [5]. In this work, we
leverage the flexibility of LUTs within FPGAs for the implementa-
tion of polymorphic circuits. LUTs can be programmed with the

union of the truth tables of two different logic functions, with one
input to the LUT selecting which logical function is propagated to
the output. By combining this LUT-based approach with external
sensors, gate-level polymorphism can be achieved without the need
for reprogramming LUTs or rerouting the circuit.

3 THREAT MODEL AND ATTACK SCENARIOS
For optical probing attacks, we presume that an adversary is equipped
with FA tools and aims to extract a secret key or reverse engineer
specific elements. The primary motivation for these attacks comes
from the scenario where a single key is employed across all devices,
such as in instances where firmware, bitstream, or logic encryption
secures the proprietary design of a system. The vendor programs
this key into the product before distribution to customers. Thus,
acquiring the key from one device could compromise the security
of the entire device family. Moreover, even if individual devices
use different keys, the uniform layout across a device family means
that once an adversary masters key extraction from one device,
she can apply this knowledge to breach other devices within the
same family. At the right side of the Fig. 1, attack scenarios are
highlighted in 7 . For this article we consider optical-based 1) key
recovery attacks[15, 16], and 2) function recovery attempts[19].

To evaluate each of these scenarios, we consider suitable optical
probing techniques. Specifically, we consider both EOP and EOFM
for key recovery, and for function reversing, we consider an EOFM
attack. Then, we deploy LaserEscape prototype on the target device
and verify our mitigation methodology accordingly. As displayed
in Fig. 1, our proposed detection and mitigation methodologies
are highlighted with 8 and 9 . We implement a low-overhead
delay-based sensor in proximity to the target elements. We assume
that the sensor is supplied by an internal clock source so that the
adversary cannot tamper with it. Upon the illumination of the HIL
at the protected physical zone, the physical characteristics of the
target are temporary altered and sensed by the proposed detector
in 8 . This triggers the defense response on the DUT to modify the
target element. In 9 the indicated elements are modified, removed,
or redeployed based on the strategy of the defender in real-time.

3

Incoherent Light SourceEOP-RAC Spectral AnalysisTime Prob AnalysisAnalysisProfilingEOFM: LocalizationEOP: Voltage ProbingGDSSensorRuntimeReconf.Laser Scanning SystemLaser Scanning Microscopy Detect and AnalysisAdversaryLaserEscapeBeam SplitterDUTAttack TargetsKey DiscoveryFunction DiscoveryAttack TargetsKey DiscoveryFunction DiscoveryClock ControllerIn/out ControllerIn/out ControllerCLKI/O❶❺❸  ❻❹❽❾Laser DetectorNavigate❼❷ICCAD ’24, October 27–31, 2024, New York, NY, USA

Khalaj Monfared et al.

4 ATTACK DETECTION
4.1 Sensor Requirements
As mentioned in Sect. 2.2 optical probing attacks induce tempera-
ture fluctuations within the chip. These localized variations alter
the signal propagation delays of the transistors. An ideal sensor
must satisfy multiple conditions to detect such attacks:
Large Spatial Coverage. Performing optical probing over a spe-
cific area only increases the temperature locally in the wires and
transistors of that region. Therefore, an ideal sensor should pro-
vide coverage across the entire security-sensitive areas to detect
localized temperature variations.
Large Temporal Coverage. The irradiation of individual gates
or registers during an optical probing attempt is potentially an
extremely rapid process (e.g., less than 1 ms). Hence, the sensor
must have a higher time resolution and continuity to capture an
attack successfully.
Reliability. The sensor must be immune to voltage and tempera-
ture variations, so to detect the attack under various environmental
conditions reliably. Otherwise, the sensor could detect noise as an
attack attempt and generate false alarms.

4.2 Sensor Architecture
Based on the above requirements, we will present the architecture
of our delay-based sensors in this section. Our sensor design is
inspired by the 1LUTSensor originally implemented for on-chip
power analysis attacks implemented in [11], see Fig. 2. It consists
of a clock signal connected to the data and clock inputs of a register
simultaneously. Moreover, the delay of the clock and data paths
can be tuned using PVT (Process, Voltage, Temperature) invariant
delay elements, namely one or multiple IDELAYE2 elements found
in the I/O blocks of the AMD 7 series FPGAs (or similar tapped
delay elements in other FPGA families). The signal on the register’s
data input path passes through a LUT, in which the path from the
LUT inputs to the output can be configured for further adjustments.
At runtime, we set the delays of each path and select the input
of the LUT to pass through such that the data pulse arrives a short
moment after the setup time boundary, as shown in Fig. 3. In this
case, in principle, the sensor output stays at 1. By increasing the
delay of the LUT, the output moves toward metastablity. We can
validate this behavior by iterative sampling the output of the regis-
ter and observing more 0 occurrences. As a result, by finding the
right tuning levels, the sensor could be stabilized by outputting 1
and getting triggered (outputting 0) when its delay is increased due
to an increase in temperature.

The primary reason behind choosing this sensor is its size com-
pared to other TDCs, in that it only requires one LUT and can be
placed in any slice, satisfying the spatial coverage requirements.
Furthermore, the utilization of these PVT-invariant elements for
delay tuning makes the sensor immune to environmental condi-
tions, satisfying its reliability. Finally, supplying the sensor a few
tens of megahertz clock signal provides sufficient timing resolution
less than the laser dwell time on a pixel.

A key difference in our implementation is using a much lower
clock frequency. The original 1LUTSensor as described in [11] was
developed to measure voltage fluctuations in a circuit running

Figure 2: Block diagram of 1LUTSensor

(a) Constant 1 case

(b) Constant 0 case

(c) Metastable case

Figure 3: Timing diagrams of 1LUTSensor

on the chip to perform power analysis attacks. As such, it ran
as fast as it could on the FPGA fabric - 600MHz - to measure an
AES circuit running at frequencies ranging from 12-120MHz with
enough resolution to detect the effects of switching gates. We do not
want such a precise resolution, since this would cause the circuit
we wish to protect to add noise to our readings. In addition, the
laser pulses for LVI are on the order of milliseconds, which means
the fluctuations in the sensor may be of that size.

4.3 Adjustable Delay Elements
Tapped delay elements are extensively utilized in FPGAs to facil-
itate signal delays. These elements are capable of adjusting the
delay of a wire in run-time. Different delay blocks are available for
different FPGA families. For instance, AMD provides IODELAY1,
IODELAY2, and IODELAY3 blocks in Spartan 6, 7 Series and Ultra-
Scale/+ families, respectively, featuring different adjustable delay
blocks. [11] Here, we describe the details of our sensor based on
IDELAYE2 elements. However, the technique presented here can
be extended to other delay blocks as well.

IDELAYE2 elements are 31-tap, wraparound, delay elements
with a calibrated tap resolution [35]. Each IDELAYE2 acts as a
pass-through for a 1-bit signal with a 5-bit input for the delay
configuration, where the higher value leads to a larger delay. Since
the delay of the clock path is larger than that of the data path, a
single IDELAYE2 might not provide sufficient delay. Therefore, a
chain of IDELAYE2s for the clock path can be used as shown in
Fig. 4.

In our design, the chain consists of 2𝑛 IDELAYE2s, where 𝑛 is
any positive integer, and the delay input is 𝑛 + 5 bits wide. The
five least significant bits set the delay of one of the IDELAYE2s,
and the 𝑛 most significant bits set how many of the rest have the
maximum delay (11111). The rest have the minimum delay (00000).
For example, in the 4-long chain shown in Fig. 4, 𝑛 = 2, so the
tuning input is 7 bits wide. Similarly, if the delay were 1010111,
one IDELAYE2 would have a delay of 10111, two IDELAYs would
have the maximum delay, and one would have the minimum delay.

4

LUTi1i3i5i2i4i0regDoτdτclksel[1]sel[0]QoutsensorclocksetuptimeholdtimeclkDQsetuptimeholdtimeclkDQsetuptimeholdtimeclkDQMetastable LaserEscape: Detecting and Mitigating Optical Probing Attacks

ICCAD ’24, October 27–31, 2024, New York, NY, USA

Figure 4: Block diagram of a 4-long IDELAYE2 chain

Figure 5: Graphs of ring oscillator period vs delay in IDE-
LAYE2

Figure 6: The Operation flow of the proposed Moving Target
Defense in an FPGA.

Moreover, we can verify the behavior of these delay blocks by in-
cluding them in series with a RO on an AMD Kintex 7 FPGA. In this
case, we can keep track of the RO’s frequency based on the IDE-
LAYE2 delay(s). Furthermore, by plotting the corresponding chain
period as a function of delay values, we can determine the range
and resolution of these delay blocks for fine-tuning the sensibility.
Fig. 5 plots the period of an exemplary 11-stage RO chain with 8
IDELAYE2 blocks, showing 𝑝𝑠 resolution for the sensor.

4.4 Sensor Tuning
In our sensor implementation, we use a standalone IDELAYE2 for
the data path delay and an 𝑚-long IDELAYE2 chain for the clock
path. Moreover, we use a select input to determine which input of
the LUT goes through to the register. Hence, we establish a tune
value, consisting of three values: 1) data-path delay, 2) clock-path
delay, and 3) LUT select. For many combinations of data path delay
and LUT select, there is a corresponding value for the clock path
delay where the output is metastable. However, some combinations
perform better since their accumulative zero counts are significantly
smaller than others, which means they are metastable in a way that
is closer to the constant zero case shown in Fig. 3a. For every value of
the data path delay, the binary search of clock delay for metastability
is carried out with LUT select fixed at zero. If metastability is found,
we search for adjacent clock delay values with every LUT select
value for other metastable tunes. During this process, we keep track
of the best tune, determined by the lowest maximum zero count
over the 𝑡𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑠𝑒 interval. At the end of the procedure, we extract the
best tune.

4.5 Sensor Output Post Processing
When the sensor’s output is metastable, yielding an output of 1 with
occasional zero pulses, the length and frequency of these pulses

5

increase during optical probing due to the impact of increased
temperature on delay lines. Hence, we utilize measurement circuitry
to characterize this. First, we implement a zero counter, which counts
the number of clock cycles for which the sensor value is zero over
𝑡𝑑𝑒𝑡𝑒𝑐𝑡 . Secondly, we employ a pulse counter, which counts the
length of the zero pulses. Based on the readings of the counters, we
connect the sensor output to a latch, which we use to trigger our
chosen defenses: 1) partial reconfiguration or 2) polymorphic gates,
which will be described in Sect 5.1 and Sect 5.2, respectively.

5 ATTACK RESPONSE
Real-time response against physical attacks can be addressed with
different approaches in accordance to the threat model. For in-
stance one can deploy a self-destructive mechanism to zeroize the
sensitive data upon sensing the physical attacks [3, 31]. In con-
trast to solutions which necessitates cell library modification at
pre-silicon [28], we propose fully logic-level mitigation method-
ologies that provides non-interrupting circumvention in addition
to existing CMOS friendly zeroization [3, 31]. Specifically, in our
method target circuitry can benefit from real-time reconfiguration
to bypass the optical attack and almost uninterrupted, operate as
normal. This is useful for deceiving the adversary [32]. Further-
more, the full zeroization of the device including the entire memory
contents incurs a huge area and latency for large designs, [3, 29]
which can be replaced by partial zeroization. In addition to MTD,
we incorporate a gate polymorphic design, particularly to defeat
optical reverse engineering attempts. We design the polymorphic
gates by inspiring the state-of-the-art methodology in [3] to create
a supply voltage-controlled gates and obfuscate the functionality
of the target elements in real-time.

IDELAYE25'b00000delayini    IDELAYE25'b00101IDELAYE25'b11111IDELAYE25'b11111out otune = 7'b1000101i      oi      oi      odelaydelaydelay050100150200250102030405060IDELAYE2 chain valueRO period, nsPeriods of 11-stage RO With 8-Long IDELAYE2 ChainOriginal DesignTarget ModulesOffline PhaseStatic DesignPR ConstraintsAnd LimitsRun-Time PhaseBitstream Analyzer ControllerPR BitstreamManipulatorCoarse GrainFine-Grain Sensor TriggerRandomizationPRRTL R1QQSETCLRDR1QQSETCLRDR2QQSETCLRDR2QQSETCLRDR3QQSETCLRDR3QQSETCLRDR2QQSETCLRDR2QQSETCLRDFineCoarseR3QQSETCLRDR3QQSETCLRDR1QQSETCLRDR1QQSETCLRDSOC/PSICCAD ’24, October 27–31, 2024, New York, NY, USA

Khalaj Monfared et al.

5.1 Moving Target Defense via PR
Fig. 6 illustrates the design of our proposed MTD-based response
for an optical attack on an FPGA. We consider an original hard-
ware design which includes some sensitive data requiring protec-
tion. For simplicity, we assume the key registers 𝑅1, 𝑅2, and 𝑅3 as
the secret elements in our design. Using TCL, the targeted mod-
ules are specified by the user through predefined annotations in
register-transfer level (RTL). At this stage, the static design in the
original bitstream as well as sample partial files are generated. The
constraints such as the allowable range for FPGA slices, regional
locations, and possible range of flip-flops (FFs) [37] are established
for generating reconfiguration. This information, together with
the generated bitstreams, are moved to the online phase of the
framework. In this phase, a lightweight processing unit (PS) is
employed within the SoC (or in an external processor) to execute
reconfiguration. A secure, one-time pseudo random number gener-
ator (PRNG) [22, 34] is implemented to provide randomness to the
PR-generator unit each time. The PR-generator includes a bitstream
manipulator (Byteman[18] in our instance), uses the predefined con-
straint limits to randomized location (LOC) and shuffle the chosen
registers. These two randomization introduce coarse and fine-grain
randomness to the reconfiguration, respectively. Consequently, the
corresponding partial reconfiguration bitstream is created based
on the original bitstream. The FPGA is then reprogrammed as soon
as the trigger signal from the sensor is received.
Inter-Register Hiding. The core functionality of the proposed
online phase is bitstream manipulation aimed at generating one-
time PR. This approach introduces real-time randomization, de-
viating from previous methods where bitstreams were stored in
memory [12]. This technique not only enhances the security level
of the countermeasure but also reduces the memory usage of the
PR files to a single bitstream. As depicted in Fig. 6, the PRNG unit
on the processor generates one-time randomness, and the bitstream
manipulator program (e.g., Byteman) collects this randomized con-
straint information to produce one-time bitstream. In the coarse
grain randomization, one or multiple slices in the FPGA are con-
siders. All the corresponding elements in the target slices (e.g.,
target FFs and LUTs) are identified in the bitstream. The bitstream
manipulator activates the corresponding routing and elements on
another slices in a randomized possible reconfigurable module on
the fly and disables the original slices of the target module and the
FPGA proceeds to reconfiguration. The reconfiguration process
delay overhead is considerably less than EOFM/EOP integration
time, leading to successful mitigation and deceiving the attacker.
These timing are investigated in detail in Sect. 7.
Intra-Register Hiding. For fine-grain manipulation, we utilize
DFX to implement PR as a hardware-based scrambling method to
counter Laser Voltage Probing attacks. For this purpose, a high-level
script (such as Python) is used to randomly permute target regis-
ters (e.g., the 3 bits of a master key shown in Fig. 6). The potential
search space for such permutations is super-exponential (𝑛!), which
effectively defeat probing attacks. This sequence is then transferred
to the bitstream manipulator program to be used as constraints
within the bitstream codes. Unlike the previous method, this ap-
proach minimizes resource utilization by requiring only a single
reconfigurable module for implementation. This efficiency arises

(a) As one 4-input LUT

(b) As two 3-input LUTs

Figure 7: Block diagram of a 4-input LUT implementing a
4-input AND gate

because the only circuitry modification in this method involves
the hardware referencing of the target flip-flops, which effectively
alters the local internal routing in the target slice.

5.2 Gate Polymorphism
To implement a polymorphic gate, we exploit the LUTs on the FPGA.
An 𝑛-input LUT consists of 2𝑛 SRAM cells feeding into a 2𝑛-to-1
multiplexer. One could formulate the truth table of an 𝑛-input logic
function to the SRAM cells and use the select inputs as the inputs
of the logic function, choosing which SRAM cell to pass on to the
output. An example of a 4-input LUT implementing an AND gate
is in Fig. 7a. Alternatively, this 4-input LUT can be seen as two
3-input LUTs with a 2-to-1 multiplexer to select which input is
passed through to the output, as shown in Fig. 7b.

In general, for 𝑛-input LUTs, we can implement polymorphic
𝑛 − 1-input LUTs using a control input to change the logic func-
tion. For instance, we can exploit input 𝑖3 in Fig. 7b to switch the
output between 1) The result of a 3-input AND and 2) constant
zero. This idea can be generalized to implement other logic gates
(i.e., XOR) easily by selecting proposer LUT inputs. Furthermore,
by connecting the control input pin to the latch output of the sen-
sor described in Sect. 4.2, we can modify any protected logic upon
detecting optical probing attacks.

6 EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
Electrical and Optical Equipment. A Hamamatsu PHEMOS-X
FA microscope was used to perform optical probing, see Fig. 8. It
is equipped with a 1.3 𝜇m high-power laser source used for our
analysis. Additionally objective lenses of 5X/0.14NA, 20X/0.6NA,
50X/0.76NA, and 71X are employed in our experiments. Further-
more, optical zooms of 2x, 4x and 8x were higher magnifications.
As illustrated in Fig. 8a, in the EOFM process, the DUT is scanned
by a laser through the use of galvanometric mirrors.
Device Under Test. For our experiments we used Digilent’s Genesys
2 development board, equipped with a Kintex-7 FPGA from Xil-
inx/AMD (part number XC7K325T-2FFG900C). We developed a
custom-made 3D printed stage to hold the target device and the
controller system.
Communication. For the run-time configuration/communication
of the target FPGA, we used a 3.3V modified Arduino Uno R3 com-
municating over I2C interface with the FPGA target. A compact

6

1i0i1i2i3Q0i0i1i2i3Q10LaserEscape: Detecting and Mitigating Optical Probing Attacks

ICCAD ’24, October 27–31, 2024, New York, NY, USA

7 RESULTS
7.1 EOFM for Localizing Target Registers
For the EOFM attacks on the key registers, we follow the similar
attack flow described in [17]. Specifically, we mount a profiling
attack on key registers implemented by flip-flop with clock enable
and synchronous reset (FDRE) [36]. We carry out a localization
attack accurately by exploiting the reset signal of the DUT [17]. In
this attack, the adversary can localize the coarse-grain circuitry of
interest by feeding the known values into the chip via I/O with a
particular frequency. Then, by sweeping in a particular frequency
bandwidth with the center frequency of I/O activities, she can
effectively discover the target registers and the corresponding con-
necting circuitry near them on the chip. Fig. 9a shows the timeline
of an EOFM scan on a target area. As shown, the target registers are
accurately localized on the selected frequency (i.e., reset frequency)
once the EOFM scanner line reaches the area.

Images captured from back-side FPGA in Fig. 9a show how the
scanning is carried out (from left to right). As the horizontal scan
line (across Y axis) moves, details of the internals of the FPGA are
shown. The bright spots represent the electronic elements (e.g.,
registers) that actively operate on particular frequencies within the
range of the EOFM scan. The target register areas, highlighted in
a red box, are programmed registers that are localized by profil-
ing. Similar to methods in [17], the profiling process consists of
1) programming the elements to fluctuate in a certain frequency,
2) activate/deactivate them and 3) analyze the optical activity ex-
tracted from EOFM. In our case shown in Fig. 9a, 1) the target FDRE
registers are programmed to reset with EOFM scanning frequency,
2) are set and clear in multiple iterations and 3) are inspected vi-
sually after EOFM scan in terms of the optical activity. The bright
area within the red target area indicates that 1) the registers are
fluctuating on the particular frequency and 2) they are set to one.

7.2 EOP for Register Values
Upon successful localization of the registers, we can then mount an
EOP attack by focusing the HIL beam on each target FF. This process
can be executed during the secret operation of the IC. For instance,
if the state registers of a block cipher (e.g., AES) are probed, the
keys are revealed easily. Fig 10 showcases a successful EOP attack
on an implementation of shift-register. In this particular scenario,
we focus the lens onto the registers (which are already localized via
EOFM) and carry out the shift operation that is programmed on the
FPGA. The probing process is synchronized with the operations on
the FPGA via triggers. The probing experiment is performed during
a particular interval with picosecond time accuracy to capture fast
logical operations which results in voltage alterations in nodes
on the chip. After multiple iterations and measurement averaging,
the curves illustrated in Fig 10 are produced. Sometimes signal
processing techniques, such as frequency band filtering and de-
noising, are required to extract the clean states of the targets. This
is due to the errors in placing and focusing the lens at the target
element. As depicted in Fig 10, the shift register operations in REG 1
and REG 2 can be followed synchronously with the CLK-BUF rising
edges.

7

(a)

(b)

Figure 8: Measurement setup. (a) Objective lenses focusing
on the target IC (b) High-level setup diagram.

circuitry on the FPGA part is deployed to handle I2C communi-
cation and commands from the user. We choose an I2C bus since
the addressable communicated data makes adding post-processing
circuits easy for different experiments.
Bitstream Reconfiguration. For the MTD implantation, once the
target is initiated with the mitigation mechanism, we utilize a Rasp-
berry Pi 3 Model B equipped with a Quad Core 1.2GHz Broadcom
64bit CPU for both partial reconfiguration and programming.
Analyzer and Controller Configuration. Illustrated in Fig. 8a, we
use a dedicated controller system, to send commands, program key
registers, adjusting target clock, and handle I/O for experiments
via I2C. The measurement system is a dedicated system synced
with the PHEMOS-X to control the stage, laser configurations and
display the digitized data captured from the detection RAC. We
use Semishop Failure Analysis Software 4.0 to control the stage and
capture the images and signals.
Optical Probing Configuration. For the EOFM and EOP analysis
we used 20x objective lens to focus on the target circuitry. The
EOFM target frequency in our experiments is set to 1.25MHz, mean-
ing that we use the controlling system to alternate the global Rst
of the target every 200𝜇𝑠. The integration time for the EOFM scan
speed is set to 1 ms/px with 1KHz of bandwidth. For the EOP, the
probing resolution is set to 100ps with 10,000 iterations. With the
aforementioned configurations, a complete EOFM scan in 1x zoom
takes approximately 194 seconds and as for a complete integrated
EOP it takes 24 seconds.
Sensor Configuration. After implementing the target RTL, we
added the sensor in a neighbour SLICE of the target. In our sensor
implementation, we used a chain of 8-long IDELAYE2 (𝑚 = 8) for
clock delay path. The tuning time interval is set to 𝑡𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑠𝑒 = 100𝑚𝑠
and the zero counter interval window in test time is set to 𝑡𝑑𝑒𝑡𝑒𝑐𝑡 =
255 clock cycles. We chose 𝑚 and 𝑡𝑑𝑒𝑡𝑒𝑐𝑡 because they were the
largest values we could read or write with a single byte over I2C
bus. We chose 𝑡𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑠𝑒 because to achieve a balance of sensitivity
versus speed when conducting experiments.

Processing UnitTriggerTarget ICController SystemMicroscope ChamberSoC DUTSensorClkI/OAnalyzer SystemsFreq.Spectrum FilteringObservation SystemDetectorEOFMEOPTrig.PHEMOS-XEOP/EOFM RACICCAD ’24, October 27–31, 2024, New York, NY, USA

Khalaj Monfared et al.

(a) timeline illustration of EOFM scan to extract targeting register values

(b) timeline illustration of EOFM scan to extract targeting register values while LaserEscape activated.

Figure 9: EOFM probing attack timeline on images captured during laser scanning from back-side of the FPGA.

Figure 10: EOFM and corresponding EOP waveforms on target
registers.

7.3 EOFM for Function Recovery
As an extension to the key recovery attempt, we also demonstrate
a function recovery attack via EOFM. Similar to previous probings,
the adversary localizes the region of interest by exploiting the
control signals in the frequency domain. By conducting a careful
profiling procedure, a reverse-engineering approach is possible to
discover the functionality of the building blocks. Fig. 11 serves as
an example for a series of profiling EOFM patterns of registers in a
function. It can be inferred that the correlation of the FFs patterns
can be described by an XOR function among the 8 input FFs at the
left side of the image and the output FFs at the right of the image.
As indicated, the programmed functionality for this function is a
simple bit-wise XOR operation where 𝑐𝑖 = 𝑎𝑖 ⊕ 𝑏𝑖 . By analysing
the EOFM optical response from different input patterns, we can
visually confirm the activation patterns for each individual register
bits. By a simple observation at the first two rows of Fig. 11, one can
suggest that the response of the neighbouring underlying registers
are separated two by two. Particularly as highlighted by red squares,
the optical patterns of 𝑎3𝑎2 and 𝑎1𝑎0 are physically separated. This
might suggest the physical realizations of FFs in each slice on this
particular FPGA architecture. Furthermore by analyzing the last
row in Fig. 11, we can recover the functionality of the operations
programmed for this target. Specifically, for 𝑎1𝑎0 = 0𝑏01, we can

8

Figure 11: Set of EOFM images for function(XOR) recovery

observe that that brightness pattern differs from 0𝑏11. With the
same observation on 𝑐1𝑐0 = 0𝑏10 we can recover the functionality
of the underlying operation in this analysis.

7.4 Evaluating Sensor Trigger
In order to ensure the sensor operates properly, we empirically
investigate the output of the sensor. As an example, Fig 12 displays
the normalized zero counter output of the sensor in two test cases
during a time window of 𝑡𝑑𝑒𝑡𝑒𝑐𝑡 = 255 clock cycles. As it can be
observed, while the laser is activated, the average of the zero counter
samples is significantly larger compared to the scenario where the
laser is idle. Furthermore, Fig 12 shows that in this case, the trigger
threshold can be selected by a safe margin. Note that compared
to the EOFM/EOP integration time, the highlighted time window
where the sensor samples are collected is very short. Specifically,
for a 𝑓 = 100𝑀𝐻𝑧 operation frequency, the samples are collected
during 256 × 10−8 = 2.56𝜇𝑠, which is considerably faster compared
to the dwell time of the laser during probing.

Target RegistersTimeEOFM Scan LineScan DirectionTimeEOFM Scan LineSensor CircuitryPartial ReconfigureOriginal Target RegistersMTDCLK BUFREG 1REG 2011011LaserEscape: Detecting and Mitigating Optical Probing Attacks

ICCAD ’24, October 27–31, 2024, New York, NY, USA

LUT and utilizing 9 IDELAYE2 in the design, which is negligible.
For the MTD, if 32-bit state registers of an AES block cipher is
considered as the target, a total area overhead of 3.5% (compared to
original AES) is estimated by Vivado toolkit in the case of choosing
8 Reconfigurable LOCs. The delay overhead caused by the PR pro-
cess for the same implementation is measured to be 223𝜇𝑠, which
maintains a large safe gap against the laser dwell time per pixel for
EOP and EOFM attacks.

8.2 Stability
As long as the ambient conditions and FPGA load remain the same,
our sensor remains stable. We let the sensor run idle for about 21
hours, logging the sensor’s readings over zero counts. Our experi-
ments, shown in Fig. 14, show that the maximum zero count had
plateaued after less than 20 minutes, but the rolling average stayed
at around zero for the rest of 21.5 hours. This implies that the zero
counts follow a normal distribution and the sensor is stable.

Figure 14: Plot of maximum and rolling average zero counts
over 21.5 hours

8.3 Further Improvements
It is possible to statistically investigate the area coverage of the
delay sensor with regards to emitted laser power, scan duration,
corresponding connections of the sensor circuitry (e.i, wires), and
different tuning of the IDELAYs or any similar delay-based sensor
against optical attacks. It would also be worthy to study the possible
improvement of detection area coverage if multiple sensors are
deployed in the target circuit.

9 CONCLUSION
In this paper, we presented the first fully digital and FPGA-compatible
detection and response countermeasure, called LaserEscape, against
optical probing attacks. LaserEscape leverages delay-based sensors
to detect optical probing attempts and MTD strategies through
the PR feature of conventional FPGAs and polymorphic circuits
to respond to the attack. By repurposing the 1LUTsensor, deploy-
ing open-source bitstream manipulators, and designing LUT-based
polymorphic gates, we built a real-time countermeasure to detect
the laser beam and deceive the adversary. We demonstrated the
resiliency of our approach by mounting optical probing attacks
against target implementations on a 28 nm FPGA in two scenarios,
namely key extraction and function extraction.

ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This effort was sponsored by NSF Grants CNS-2150123 and CNS-
2150122.

9

Figure 12: Sensor output against optical probing attempt.

Figure 13: EOFM images for function(XOR) recovery and
polymorphic gate mitigation.

7.5 Defeating Function Discovery Attacks
For this experiment, we deploy LaserEscape sensor on the target
FPGA. We mount the same optical probing attack described in
Sect. 7.3. In this experiment instead of a simple XOR gates for
the target function we deployed the proposed polymorphic XOR
gates in the target design. For the EOFM, Fig. 13 displays the input
and output registers of the target function. As shown in the upper
part of Fig. 13, the unprotected target reveals the XOR function
for 𝑖𝑛1 = 0𝑏0101 and 𝑖𝑛2 = 0𝑏1010 which results in 𝑜𝑢𝑡 = 0𝑏1111
highlighted on the right side of the figure. When the sensor detects
laser emission on the FPGA, the polymorphic gate activates and
clears the output of the XOR gates. This is highlighted in the lower
part of Fig. 13.

7.6 Defeating Register Recovery
To evaluate our method we organize the similar EOFM attack de-
scribed in Sect. 7.1 in presence of LaserEscape. We target a set of 8
FDRE registers which are considered to be protected in the design.
One can assume these registers hold the master key of a crypto-
graphic algorithm (e.g., AES). Fig. 9b illustrated the timeline of the
EOFM scan targeting the FDRE registers. Compared to the similar
attack depicted in Fig.9a, as the scanning laser line approaches the
physical locations of the target FDREs, the sensor in LaserEscape is
triggered and consequently the MTD via PR is carried out in real-
time, leaving no trace of the FDRE targets once the laser arrives
at the target destination. Note that the sensor circuitry is placed
on a neighbouring slice to the target shown in Fig. 9b and is not
illustrated in these captures.

8 DISCUSSIONS
8.1 Overhead Analysis
In terms of the overhead introduced by LaserEscape, the 1LUTsensor
is very efficient in terms of area overhead by employing a single

050100150200250Sample Index0255075100125150Normalized Zero Counter ValueLaser ActiveLaser IdleAvg LaserAvg IdleThreshold05101520020406080100120140time, hrzero count, clock cycles1LUTsensor output over timemaximumrolling averageICCAD ’24, October 27–31, 2024, New York, NY, USA

Khalaj Monfared et al.

REFERENCES
[1] Chandler Bernard, William Bryant, Richard Becker, and Jia Di. 2021. Design of
Asynchronous Polymorphic Logic Gates for Hardware Security. In 2021 IEEE
High Performance Extreme Computing Conference (HPEC). IEEE, 1–5.

[2] Ivan Bow, Nahome Bete, Fareena Saqib, Wenjie Che, Chintan Patel, Ryan Robucci,
Calvin Chan, and Jim Plusquellic. 2020. Side-channel power resistance for en-
cryption algorithms using implementation diversity. Cryptography 4, 2 (2020),
13.

[3] Andrew Cannon, Tasnuva Farheen, Sourav Roy, Shahin Tajik, and Domenic Forte.
2023. Protection against physical attacks through self-destructive polymorphic
latch. In 2023 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Computer Aided Design
(ICCAD). IEEE, 1–9.

[4] Samuel Chef, Chung Tah Chua, Jing Yun Tay, Yu Wen Siah, Shivam Bhasin, J
Breier, and Chee Lip Gan. 2018. Descrambling of embedded SRAM using a laser
probe. In 2018 IEEE International Symposium on the Physical and Failure Analysis
of Integrated Circuits (IPFA). IEEE, 1–6.

[5] Jeffery Falkinburg. 2011. Dynamic Polymorphic Reconfiguration to Effectively
Cloak a Circuit’s Function. Ph. D. Dissertation. Air Force Institute of Technology.
[6] Tasnuva Farheen, Sourav Roy, Shahin Tajik, and Domenic Forte. 2022. A twofold
clock and voltage-based detection method for laser logic state imaging attack.
IEEE Transactions on Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI) Systems 31, 1 (2022),
65–78.

[7] Hannes Groß, Stefan Mangard, and Thomas Korak. 2016. Domain-oriented
masking: Compact masked hardware implementations with arbitrary protection
order. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2016).

[8] Tim Güneysu and Amir Moradi. 2011. Generic side-channel countermeasures
for reconfigurable devices. In International workshop on cryptographic hardware
and embedded systems. Springer, 33–48.

[9] Benjamin Hettwer, Johannes Petersen, Stefan Gehrer, Heike Neumann, and Tim
Güneysu. 2019. Securing cryptographic circuits by exploiting implementation
diversity and partial reconfiguration on FPGAs. In 2019 Design, Automation &
Test in Europe Conference & Exhibition (DATE). IEEE, 260–263.

[10] Johann Heyszl, Stefan Mangard, Benedikt Heinz, Frederic Stumpf, and Georg
Sigl. 2012. Localized electromagnetic analysis of cryptographic implementations.
In Topics in Cryptology–CT-RSA 2012: The Cryptographers’ Track at the RSA
Conference 2012, San Francisco, CA, USA, February 27–March 2, 2012. Proceedings.
Springer, 231–244.

[11] Darshana Jayasinghe, Brian Udugama, and Sri Parameswaran. 2023. 1LUTSensor:
Detecting FPGA Voltage Fluctuations using LookUp Tables. IACR Transactions on
Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded Systems 2024 (Dec. 2023), 51–86. https:
//doi.org/10.46586/tches.v2024.i1.51-86

[12] Nadir Khan, Benjamin Hettwer, and Jürgen Becker. 2021. Moving target and
implementation diversity based countermeasures against side-channel attacks.
In International Symposium on Applied Reconfigurable Computing. Springer, 188–
202.

[13] Dirk Koch. 2012. Partial reconfiguration on FPGAs: architectures, tools and appli-

cations. Vol. 153. Springer Science & Business Media.

[14] Dirk Koch, Jim Torresen, Christian Beckhoff, Daniel Ziener, Christopher Dennl,
Volker Breuer, Jürgen Teich, Michael Feilen, and Walter Stechele. 2012. Partial
reconfiguration on FPGAs in practice—Tools and applications. In ARCS 2012.
IEEE, 1–12.

[15] Thilo Krachenfels, Fatemeh Ganji, Amir Moradi, Shahin Tajik, and Jean-Pierre
Seifert. 2021. Real-world snapshots vs. theory: Questioning the t-probing security
model. In 2021 IEEE symposium on security and privacy (SP). IEEE, 1955–1971.

[16] Thilo Krachenfels, Tuba Kiyan, Shahin Tajik, and Jean-Pierre Seifert. 2021.
Automatic Extraction of Secrets from the Transistor Jungle using {Laser-
Assisted} {Side-Channel} Attacks. In 30th USENIX security symposium (USENIX
security 21). 627–644.

[17] Heiko Lohrke, Shahin Tajik, Christian Boit, and Jean-Pierre Seifert. 2016. No
place to hide: Contactless probing of secret data on FPGAs. In Cryptographic
Hardware and Embedded Systems–CHES 2016: 18th International Conference, Santa
Barbara, CA, USA, August 17-19, 2016, Proceedings 18. Springer, 147–167.
[18] Kristiyan Manev, Joseph Powell, Kaspar Matas, and Dirk Koch. 2022. byteman: A
Bitstream Manipulation Framework. In 2022 International Conference on Field-
Programmable Technology (ICFPT). IEEE, 1–9.

[19] Dev M Mehta, Mohammad Hashemi, Domenic Forte, Shahin Tajik, and Fatemeh
Ganji. 2024. 1/0 Shades of UC: Photonic Side-Channel Analysis of Universal
Circuits. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2024).

[20] Nele Mentens, Benedikt Gierlichs, and Ingrid Verbauwhede. 2008. Power and fault
analysis resistance in hardware through dynamic reconfiguration. In International
Workshop on Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded Systems. Springer, 346–362.
[21] Saleh Khalaj Monfared, Domenic Forte, and Shahin Tajik. 2024. RandOhm:
Mitigating Impedance Side-channel Attacks using Randomized Circuit Configu-
rations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.08925 (2024).

[22] Saleh Khalaj Monfared, Omid Hajihassani, Mohammad Sina Kiarostami,
Soroush Meghdadi Zanjani, Dara Rahmati, and Saeid Gorgin. 2020. BSRNG:
a high throughput parallel bitsliced approach for random number generators. In

Workshop Proceedings of the 49th International Conference on Parallel Processing.
1–10.

[23] Amir Moradi and Oliver Mischke. 2013. Comprehensive evaluation of AES dual
ciphers as a side-channel countermeasure. In Information and Communications
Security: 15th International Conference, ICICS 2013, Beijing, China, November 20-22,
2013. Proceedings 15. Springer, 245–258.

[24] Svetla Nikova, Christian Rechberger, and Vincent Rijmen. 2006. Threshold imple-
mentations against side-channel attacks and glitches. In International conference
on information and communications security. Springer, 529–545.

[25] Sajjad Parvin, Chandan Kumar Jha, Sallar Ahmadi-Pours, Frank Sill Torres, and
Rolf Drechsler. 2023. Hidden in Plain Sight: A Detailed Investigation of Selectively
Increasing Local Density to Camouflage and Robustify Against Optical Probing
Attacks. In 2023 IEEE International Test Conference India (ITC India). IEEE, 1–6.
[26] M Tanjidur Rahman, Nusrat Farzana Dipu, Dhwani Mehta, Shahin Tajik, Mark
Tehranipoor, and Navid Asadizanjani. 2021. Concealing-gate: Optical contactless
probing resilient design. ACM Journal on Emerging Technologies in Computing
Systems (JETC) 17, 3 (2021), 1–25.

[27] Falk Schellenberg, Dennis RE Gnad, Amir Moradi, and Mehdi B Tahoori. 2021.
An inside job: Remote power analysis attacks on FPGAs. IEEE Design & Test 38,
3 (2021), 58–66.

[28] Haoting Shen, Navid Asadizanjani, Mark Tehranipoor, and Domenic Forte. 2018.
Nanopyramid: An optical scrambler against backside probing attacks. In ISTFA
2018: Proceedings from the 44th International Symposium for Testing and Failure
Analysis. ASM International, 280.

[29] Ankush Srivastava and Prokash Ghosh. 2019. An efficient memory zeroization
technique under side-channel attacks. In 2019 32nd International Conference on
VLSI Design and 2019 18th International Conference on Embedded Systems (VLSID).
IEEE, 76–81.

[30] Adrian Stoica, Ricardo Zebulum, and Didier Keymeulen. 2001. Polymorphic
electronics. In Evolvable Systems: From Biology to Hardware: 4th International
Conference, ICES 2001 Tokyo, Japan, October 3–5, 2001 Proceedings 4. Springer,
291–302.

[31] Sho Tada, Yuki Yamashita, Kohei Matsuda, Makoto Nagata, Kazuo Sakiyama, and
Noriyuki Miura. 2021. Design and concept proof of an inductive impulse self-
destructor in sense-and-react countermeasure against physical attacks. Japanese
Journal of Applied Physics 60, SB (2021), SBBL01.

[32] Shahin Tajik, Julian Fietkau, Heiko Lohrke, Jean-Pierre Seifert, and Christian
Boit. 2017. Pufmon: Security monitoring of fpgas using physically unclonable
functions. In 2017 IEEE 23rd International symposium on on-line testing and robust
system design (IOLTS). IEEE, 186–191.

[33] Shahin Tajik, Heiko Lohrke, Jean-Pierre Seifert, and Christian Boit. 2017. On
the power of optical contactless probing: Attacking bitstream encryption of
FPGAs. In Proceedings of the 2017 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and
Communications Security. 1661–1674.

[34] Kuen Hung Tsoi, Ka Hei Leung, and Philip Heng Wai Leong. 2003. Compact
FPGA-based true and pseudo random number generators. In 11th Annual IEEE
Symposium on Field-Programmable Custom Computing Machines, 2003. FCCM
2003. IEEE, 51–61.

[35] Xilinx. 2023. IDELAYE2. https://docs.amd.com/r/en-US/ug953-vivado-7series-

libraries/IDELAYE2 publisher: AMD, Inc..

[36] Xilinx. 2023. UltraScale Architecture Libraries Guide (UG974). https://docs.amd.

com/r/en-US/ug974-vivado-ultrascale-libraries/.

[37] Xilinx. 2023. Xilinx Constraints Guide. https://www.xilinx.com/xilinx-14/cgd.

pdf

[38] Xilinx. 2023. Xilinx Introduction to Dynamic Function eXchange. https:
//docs.xilinx.com/r/en-US/ug909-vivado-partial-reconfiguration/Introduction-
to-Dynamic-Function-eXchange.

[39] Hui Zhang, Longyang Lin, Qiang Fang, and Massimo Alioto. 2023. Laser volt-
age probing attack detection with 100% area/time coverage at above/below the
bandgap wavelength and fully-automated design. IEEE Journal of Solid-State
Circuits (2023).

[40] Mark Zhao and G Edward Suh. 2018. FPGA-based remote power side-channel
attacks. In 2018 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP). IEEE, 229–244.

10

